Title: XP: RPG vs Real Life
Slug: xp
Date: 2014-04-17

![Level Up!](/images/level-up.jpg)

If you played RPGs, you probably have heard of the term "XP", which means
"experience". Experience is a big part of RPGs: your character accomplishes
tasks, fights monsters, gets more experience and progresses gaining new
skills and abilities. Acquired knowledge makes your character stronger and now
they can be more effective in what they do.

This experience model was surely designed after the real world: do something
useful and learn new skills from it.

[The Wikipedia article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Experience_point)
distinguishes several classes for XP systems in modern video games.

Level-based progression means you would need to collect a certain number of XP
points to get to the next level of your character. Once you are there, either
your stats or a specific ability will increase or become more powerful. It is
the simplest form of progression: no choice, no matter what type of experience
your character gets - the development of skills is linear and prearranged.

Free-form advancement is a game mechanic system where you can "spend" your
character points, acquired by "level-ups", on the skills you desire to get
advanced. This system is very common and can be met in the RPGs like Diablo or
King's Bounty. Usually there is a skill tree and some skills are discoverable
only after "learning" the required skills.

![Skill tree in Diablo](/images/diablo-skill-tree.jpg)

Sometimes, once you've chosen one development branch of the skill tree, there is
no way back. So once you've become a druid, chances you will relearn as a
soldier are very low.

There is also a Cash-in advancement system which looks similar to the Free-form
but uses XP points directly to purchase skills rather than character points. I
think the difference is - in Free-form advancement each skill has roughly
equal cost on the same level, but in Cash-in advancement there are predefined
prices for each ability or spell.

The fourth one is called "Activity-based advancement" and in my opinion it is
the closest system to the real world. Here each skill has an individual
statistic. Your character develops certain skill only after accomplishing the
task related directly to that skill. If you kill a dragon - you become better at
fighting dragons but not in making food or catching fish.

Your activity directly affects the development of your character and your
actions in the game define what you get in the end. So you cannot spend the
whole day building houses and then increase your bow shooting skill. It is not
realistic, you probably didn't even touch a bow.

![TES: Morrowind - level up](/images/morrowind-level-up.jpg)

It bothers me that this is still not close to real life. I would slightly alter
the system and give some experience advancement in that skill even if you failed
the task. If you attacked the dragon, was defeated but survived and escaped - I
would call it a hell of experience. The mission was aborted and it is far from
declaring the victory - but your character must have learnt how to fight
dragons, how to survive in the heat of flame and how to hide in the lake while
the furious reptile is seeking for offender on the surface.

Pretty sure some modern game has already implemented a combination of all the
above and kept it both realistic and engaging at the same time.

For better or worse, that's how the XP system of our bigger game works.
Unfortunately it has no difficulty selection screen.

